2024-04-10

The user might note that the spatial beta diversity functions in 
this folder are not 100% the same as those in HelperFunctions.R 
(note, these may be separated into individual functions later).
This is due to a bug detected (mea culpa!) involving a mismatch in
the ordering of expand.grid and vegan::vegdist. The values appear
to be correct, but they are misassigned between environment pairs
within a given time step. I recommend usage of the RMTRCode2
versions instead of the local versions in this folder.

Is this a major problem? 
In short, no: the bug only affects the labelling in spatial beta.
Temporal beta is unaffected (as we only compare single time step
to single time step, rather than all time steps simultaneously) as
are the alpha and gamma metrics (since it is a pairwise distance
problem). Presence, invasibility and simulation data are unaffected.
Furthermore, spatial beta aggregates over environments are not 
affected either, so long as all environment pairs are aggregated
equally. The only problem that might occur is downstream from using
the diversity data from the simulations while looking at individual
patch pairs. In that case, the spatial beta diversity would need to
be recalculated.

This is a problem, for instance, in the otherwise unused figure
SmallMultiples for the pairs of Spatial Jaccard with Local Richness
and with Temporal Jaccard.

What actions have been taken?
Figure 3 images included the generation of diversity values. Visual
inspection of the results appear to not show any differences. As
such, I've taken the opportunity to simply remove the individual 
versions of the functions there. 

I've not done the same for Figure 4 diversity calculation functions.
The reason for this is that the data generated for Figure 4 has been
published, and I feel the code should reflect the publication unless
the mistake affects the results. As such, the Figure 4 calculations
should not be used for a new analysis.

Does this invalidate the publication?
It adds a caveat to the detailed interpretation of the data, but the
figures all remain the same (Figure 3 used Environment Identity/-ies
to keep lines separate, while Figure 4 averaged over Environments and
Times, e.g. line 204 of MNA-Image-VikingOut-Figure4.R) as does all of
the text (e.g., no numbers change). At no point were individual 
patches compared in the 2023 publication.

-- Brennen Fagan